Unit 1  
    如今，很多年轻人不再选择"稳定"的工作，他们更愿意自主创业，依靠自己的智慧和奋斗去实现自我价值。青年创业（young entrepreneurship）是未来国家经济活力的来源，创业者的成功不但会创造财富、增加就业机会、改善大家的生活，从长远来看，对于国家更是一件好事，创业者正是让中国经济升级换代的力量。尤其是在当前，国家鼓励大众创业、万众创新，在政策上给予中小企业支持，这更加激发了年轻人的创业热情。   
    Nowadays, many young people no longer choose “stable” jobs. Instead, they prefer to start their own businesses and realize their self-value through their own wisdom and efforts. Young entrepreneurship is the source of national economic vitality in the future. The success of entrepreneurs not only creates fortune, increases job opportunities, improves people’s life, but it is also good for the country in the long term. Entrepreneurs are a driving force in upgrading China’s economy. Especially for the time being, our country is encouraging people to start their own businesses and make innovations and giving policy support for medium and small businesses. This further arouses young people's enthusiasm to start their own businesses. 
Unit 2 
    实现中华民族伟大复兴（rejuvenation）是近代以来中国人民最伟大的梦想，我们称之为“中国梦”，其基本内涵是实现国家富强、民族振兴、人民幸福。中国梦，是让每一个积极进取的中国人形成世世代代的信念：只要经过不懈的奋斗便能获得更好的生活。人们必须通过自己的勤奋、勇气、创意和决心迈向繁荣，而不是依赖于社会和他人的援助。每个中国人都是中国梦的参与者和创造者。中国梦是民族的梦，也是每个中国人的梦。
    Realizing the great national rejuvenation, which we define as the Chinese Dream, has been the greatest Chinese expectation since modern times. It basically means achieving prosperity for the country, renewal of the nation and happiness for the people, thus ensuring that every enterprising Chinese carries, generation after generation, the firm conviction that a better life is accomplished through persistent effort. People should achieve their prosperity through diligence, courage, creativity and determination instead of aid from society or other people. Each individual is a participant and a designer in the cause of realizing the Chinese Dream, for it is a dream not only for the entire nation but also for every Chinese.  

Unit 3  
    水墨画（ink and wash painting）是中国独具特色的传统艺术形式之一，是中国国画的代表。它大约始于唐代，兴盛于宋代和元代，距今已有一千多年的历史，其间经历了不断的发展、提高和完善。水墨画的创作工具和材料是具有浓厚中国特色的毛笔、宣纸和墨，其作品特点也与此紧密相关。例如，水和墨相互调和，使作品具有干湿浓淡的层次。水墨和宣纸的交融渗透也使画作善于表现丰富的意象，从而达到独特的审美效果。水墨画在中国绘画史上具有很高的地位，甚至被认为是衡量东方绘画艺术水平的标准。 
    Ink and wash painting, one of the unique traditional art forms of China, is representative of Chinese painting. It began around the time of the Tang Dynasty, and then prospered in the Song and Yuan dynasties. With a history of over one thousand years, it has experienced constant development, improvement and perfection. The tools and materials used to create ink and wash painting, i.e. brushes, rice paper, and ink, are characteristic of Chinese culture and closely related to the features of the paintings. For example, the mixing of water and ink creates different shades of dryness, wetness, thickness and thinness. The integration and infiltration of water, ink, and rice paper enables such paintings to convey rich images, and hence to achieve unique aesthetic effects. Ink and wash painting holds a high status in the history of Chinese painting, and it is even regarded as the criterion to evaluate the artistic level of Oriental paintings.   

Unit 4  
    丽江地处云南省西北部，境内多山。丽江古城坐落在玉龙雪山脚下，是一座风景秀丽的历史文化名城，也是我国保存完好的少数民族古城之一。丽江古城始建于南宋，距今约有800年的历史。丽江不仅历史悠久，而且民族众多，少数民族人口占全区人口的半数以上。随着丽江旅游业的发展，到丽江古城观光游览的中外游客日益增多。1997年12月，丽江古城申报世界文化遗产获得成功，填补了中国在世界文化遗产中无历史文化名城的空白。 
Lijiang is a mountainous city in northwest Yunnan Province. The old town of Lijiang, located at the foot of Jade Dragon Snow Mountain, is a town of scenic beauty and known for its history and culture. It is also a well-preserved old town with features of ethnic minorities. The construction work of the old town was started from the Southern Song Dynasty about 800 years from now. Not only does Lijiang boast a long history, but also it boasts many ethnic minorities who make up over a half of the total population in the region. With the booming of Lijiang tourism, the old town of Lijiang is receiving a growing number of tourists from home and abroad. In December 1997, the old town succeeded in applying to be named a World Cultural Heritage Site, filling the gap of lacking a noted historical and cultural city in China on the World Cultural Heritage List.  

5. 灯笼起源于东汉，最初主要用于照明。在唐代，人们用红灯笼来庆祝安定的生活。从那时起，灯笼在中国的许多地方流行起来。灯笼通常用色彩鲜艳的薄纸制作，形状和尺寸各异。在中国传统文化中，红灯笼象征生活美满和生意兴隆，通常在春节、元宵节和国庆节等节日期间悬挂。如今，世界上许多其他地方也能看到红灯笼。
Lanterns, which originated from the Eastern Han Dynasty, were originally mainly used for lighting .In the Tang Dynasty, the red lanterns were used to celebrate the peaceful life. Since then, they have become popular in many parts of China.  Lanterns are usually made of thin papers of bright colors, in different shapes and sizes.Red lanterns symbolize/are the symbol of happy life and prosperous business in traditional Chinese culture and thus are hung up in holidays and festivals such as the Spring Festival, Lantern Festival and National Day. Nowadays, lanterns can be seen in many other places in the world.

6. 剪纸是中国民间艺术的一种独特形式，已有2000多年历史。剪纸很可能源于汉代，继纸张发明之后。从此，它在中国的许多地方得到了普及。剪纸用的材料和工具很简单：纸和剪刀。剪纸作品通常是用红纸做成的，因为红色在中国传统文化中与幸福相联。因此，在婚礼、春节等喜庆场合，红颜色的剪纸是门窗装饰的首选。
    As a unique form of Chinese folk arts, paper cutting has a long history of more than 2000 years. It probably originated in the Han Dynasty, following the invention of paper. From then on, it had gained popularity in many parts of China. Materials and tools used for paper-cut are simple: paper and scissors. Paper-cut works are usually made of red paper, because the color red is associated with happiness in traditional Chinese culture. Therefore, in wedding ceremonies, Spring Festival and on other festive occasions, red paper-cut is the first choice for door and window decoration. 

7. 舞狮作为中国传统民间表演已有2000多年历史。在狮子舞中，两位表演者同披一件狮子服，一个舞动头部，另一个舞动身体和尾巴。他们熟练配合，模仿狮子的各种动作。狮子也是兽中之王，象征幸福和好运，所以人们通常在春节和其他节日期间表演狮子舞。狮子舞也可能出现在其他重要场合，如商店开业和结婚典礼，往往吸引许多人观赏
    Lion dance, as a traditional Chinese folk performance, has a history of more than 2000 years. During the dancing, the two performers wear one lion uniform with one controlling the actions of the head and the other controlling the actions of the body and tail. They cooperate skillfully with each other in order to imitate the various and vivid actions of a lion. As the monarch of all beasts, lions symbolize happiness and fortune; therefore, lion dancing is usually performed during the Spring Festival and other festivals. It probably appears on other such important occasions as business opening and wedding ceremonies, which often attracts many people to watch/appreciate.

8. 越来越多的中国人现在的确离不开手机了。他们中的许多人，包括老年人，都使用手机应用程序（apps）保持联系并拓宽朋友圈。他们也用手机购物，查找信息，因为手机便于携带。此外，使用手机应用程序通信比传统电话便宜。然而，这种新趋势导致人们在社交时过度依赖手机。事实上，一些年轻人已经变得十分上瘾，以至于怠慢了与家人和朋友面对面的交流。
     It is a fact that more and more Chinese can hardly live without their mobile phones nowadays. Many of them, including senior citizens, use mobile apps to keep in touch with others and expand their circles of friends. They also use mobile phones to shop online and search information because they are portable. What's more, communication through mobile apps costs less than traditional phone calls. However, this new trend results in the over-reliance on mobile phones when people are socializing. As a matter of fact, some young people have become so addicted to mobile phones that they have neglected the face-to-face communication with their family and friends.

9. 由于通信网络的快速发展，中国智能手机用户数量近年来以惊人度增长。这极大地改变了许多人的阅读方式。他们现在经常智能手机上看新闻和文章，而不买传统报刊。大量移动应用程序的开发使人们能用手机读小说和其他形式的文学作品。因此，纸质书籍的销售受到了影响。但调查显示，尽管能手机阅读市场稳步增长，超半数成年人仍喜欢读纸质书。
    Due to the rapid development of communication network, the number of Chinese smartphone users has increased at an amazing speed in recent years, which has dramatically changed numerous peoples’ way of reading. Nowadays, they always read news and articles through smartphones instead of buying traditional newspapers and periodicals. The development of a large number of mobile applications enables people to read novels and other forms of literary works with their phones. Therefore, the sales of paper books have been affected. But the survey reveals that although the smartphone reading market is growing steadily, more than half of the grown-ups still enjoy reading paper books.

10. 过去几年里，移动支付市场在中国蓬勃发展。随着移动互联网得出现，手机购物逐渐成为一种趋势。18到30岁的年轻人构成了移动支付市场的最大群体。由于现在用手机付款极容易，许多消费者在购物时宁愿用手机付款，而不愿用现金或信用卡。为了鼓励人们多消费，许多商店给使用移动支付的顾客打折。专家预测，中国移动支付市场未来仍有很大发展潜力。
    The past few years has witnessed the rapid development of China's mobile payment market. With the advent of the mobile Internet, mobile shopping has gradually become a trend. Young people aged from 18 to 30 have constituted the largest group of the mobile payment market. Considering the extreme convenience of the mobile payment, many consumers are willing to use phones rather than cash or credit cards for the payment. To encourage people's consumption, many shops offer discounts to the customers who use mobile payment. It is predicted by experts that the mobile payment market in China still has great potential for development in the future.